+++
date = 2017-01-01T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.

title = "Intrinsically Adhesive Polymer Wound Dressing with Antimicrobial Properties"
time_start = 2019-10-08T17:05:00
time_end = 2018-10-08T17:25:00
abstract = "Conventional wound dressings are adhesive-coated thin films. They adhere primarily to healthy skin surrounding the wound, and have limited exudate absorption. Here, we demonstrate that polymer blend fibers can be sprayed directly into a partial-thickness skin wound using solution blow spinning, a fiber spinning technique. Due to a body temperature-mediated softening event, the fibrous wound dressing can stick immediately to the wound and skin. Within 3 days, the porous wound dressing has absorbed a significant amount of wound exudate, creating a polymer-scab hybrid material that is strongly bound to the wound. As a result, this wound dressing required 75% fewer dressing changes than a clinical control wound dressing. We tracked a number of additional wound healing metrics. Vascularization, as measured by blood vessel density in the healing wound, was significantly increased. Dermis and epidermis thickness, collagen content, and various gene and cytokine expression levels were comparable between dressings. We also engineered the controlled release of silver nitrate, a potent antimicrobial agent, without compromising adhesion or cytotoxicity."

abstract_short = ""
event = "4th Bioengineering and Translational Medicine Conference"
event_url = "https://www.aiche.org/sbe/conferences/translational-medicine-and-bioengineering-conference/2019/technical-program"
location = "Durham, NC, USA"

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   projects = ["deep-learning"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
