+++
date = 2017-01-01T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.

title = "Functionalized Biodegradable Polymer Surgical Sealant for Bowel Anastomoses"
time_start = 2030-06-01T13:00:00
time_end = 2030-06-01T15:00:00
abstract = "Surgical sealants reduce the risk of anastomotic leaks that may cause expensive, high mortality rate complications such as sepsis. Using a polymer nanofiber deposition method called solution blow spinning (SBS), we have developed sprayable fibrous coatings that soften due to a body temperature-mediated thermal transition. Poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) was blended with poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) in varying ratios in solution to increase tissue adhesion. We used this solution to fabricate fiber mats using SBS, and showed that PEG increases fiber diameter and affects fiber morphology. Increasing PEG content decreases the glass transition temperature of the material and creates a melting event at 31°C, which occurs after the material is applied to the body. Temperature controlled pull-off testing demonstrated increased tissue adhesive forces at body temperature. The degradation of this material was monitored for 28 days and compared to PLGA. Adhesive forces and burst pressures measured on ex vivo intestinal tissue at body temperature increased relative to PLGA fibers. In vivo testing of an optimized PLGA-PEG blend as a supplement to sutures in a leaky anastomosis mouse model showed increased burst pressure and improved survival rate compared to clinically-relevant controls. This blend could be deposited in situ directly to the site of surgery using an airbrush and changed from white to translucent after application, augmenting usability. We also evaluated PLGA-PEG as a coating for a no-suture anastomosis, where it performed similarly to cyanoacrylate glue (“superglue”) with reduced inflammation."

abstract_short = "Using a polymer nanofiber deposition method called solution blow spinning (SBS), we have developed sprayable fibrous coatings that soften due to a body temperature-mediated thermal transition. Poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) was blended with poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) in varying ratios in solution to increase tissue adhesion. This blend could be deposited in situ directly to the site of surgery using an airbrush and changed from white to translucent after application, augmenting usability. We also evaluated PLGA-PEG as a coating for a no-suture anastomosis, where it performed similarly to cyanoacrylate glue (“superglue”) with reduced inflammation."
event = "European Materials Research Society Spring Meeting 2017 "
event_url = "https://www.european-mrs.com/meetings/archives/2017-spring-meeting"
location = "Strasbourg, France"

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
projects = ["deep-learning"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = "img-1963_orig-cropped.jpg"
caption = "E-MRS Spring Meeting 2017"

+++

Embed your slides or video here using [shortcodes](https://sourcethemes.com/academic/post/writing-markdown-latex/). Further details can easily be added using *Markdown* and $\rm \LaTeX$ math code.
